---
title: 2024 Sec 1 Posting and Registration
permalink: /news-and-events/2023/2024-sec1-posting-registration/
date: 2023-12-18
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>Dear Parents/ Guardian and our newly posted Secondary 1 students,</p><p>Greetings from Geylang Methodist School (Secondary) and a very warm welcome to you and your child to our GMS(S) family.</p><p>The Secondary One Registration process will be conducted online. You and your child are&nbsp;<strong>not required</strong>&nbsp;to report in person on Registration Day.</p><h4>&nbsp;<u>Online Registration</u></h4><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The online registration will open on Registration Day, <strong>21 December 2023, Thursday, 8am</strong></p></li><li><p>To e-register your child, go to <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://form.gov.sg/6579d886e979470012fed3d4</a>.</p></li><li><p>It is compulsory to complete all the fields in the online registration.</p></li><li><p><strong>Please complete the</strong> <strong>online registration latest by 22 December 2023, Friday, 12pm</strong>.</p></li></ul><h4><u>Information on Parents Gateway (PG)</u></h4><p>To help you and your child prepare for the new school year, key information will be sent via Parents Gateway (PG). We have also included the following documents for your easy reference to all the information that you need.</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>School General Information</p></li><li><p>Checklist for Parents on Secondary 1 Matters 2024</p></li></ul><p>In addition, if your child/ward is eligible to take subject(s) at a More Demanding Level, Higher Mother Tongue Language, 3rd Language and/ or Mother Tongue Language “B”, separate offer letter(s) will be sent to you via PG.</p><p>We will also be sending information on Class and House allocation via a separate PG.</p><p></p><h4><u>Application for MOE Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS)</u></h4><p>The Ministry of Education provides financial assistance to Singaporean students from our Government and Government-Aided Schools who need financial assistance for their studies.</p><p>There are 2 options for application of the MOE Financial Assistance Scheme.</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Obtain a hard copy of the application form from the General Office or download a copy <a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/financial-matters/-/media/a2155de9879a4d1db7eef286a4451e2c.ashx" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p></li></ol><p>Please submit the hardcopy application form and the required supporting documents to the General Office. You can refer to the point 11 of the Annex I of the application form for the required supporting documents.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ol start="2" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Submit via e-FAS form by clicking <a href="https://form.gov.sg/64e2f8f73f582600139f54ac" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p></li></ol><p>Please click <a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/financial-matters/financial-assistance" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on the MOE Financial Assistant Scheme and the Financial assistant eligibility checker.</p><p>Please approach our staff in the General Office before you purchase the textbooks and uniform.</p><p></p><p></p><h4><u>Appeal for Transfer</u><strong><br></strong></h4><p>Serious Medical Conditions&nbsp;<br>Students who wish to appeal for transfer to other schools due to medical reasons, please submit your appeal to our school’s General Office&nbsp;by 21 Dec 2023, 12 pm. You are required to bring the supporting medical documents. <br>&nbsp;<br>Non-Medical Reasons<br>Students who wish to appeal for transfer to other schools due to non-medical reasons, please submit the appeal&nbsp;directly&nbsp;to the preferred school.</p><p>For more MOE information on Appeal for transfer, please click <a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/secondary/s1-posting/results/appeal-for-school-transfer" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>For appeal to <strong>transfer into GMS(S)</strong> other than medical reason, students must <strong>first meet our school’s cut off point</strong> (COP).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>There are 2 options for submission of appeal to transfer into GMS(S):</p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Submit via FormSG by clicking <a href="https://form.gov.sg/656fe2c71bbc3800125f6804" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Obtain a hard copy of the application form from the General Office.</p><p>Please submit Appeal Form <strong>by 22 Dec 2023, 12 pm.</strong></p><p>We look forward to meeting your child/ward next year and partnering with you in his/her holistic development.</p><p>For further enquiries, please call the General Office at 67466503, or send an email to <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">gmss@moe.edu.sg</a>.</p>